What is Artificial Intelligence and Generative AI
Artificial intelligence (AI) has rapidly evolved from simple automation tools into powerful systems capable of generating content, analyzing complex data, and even acting autonomously. Naturally, this powerful, newly developed piece of technology was sought out by many corporations, including Microsoft. Microsoft’s entry into the AI bubble resulted in a tool best known as Copilot, an Artificial Intelligence program integrated with almost all of Microsoft's programs, such as Word, Outlook, Excel, and many more. With this new addition to Microsoft’s dominant arsenal of digital applications, Copilot allows users to more efficiently produce emails, documents, and even search results faster than ever before.

Role in Cybersecurity
But that is only the beginning, as generative AI could also aid security by making more space for companies to focus on securing their digital infrastructure rather than producing it. For instance, Security Analysts could use it to summarize threat reports, analyze malware behavior, or scan suspicious logs, tasks that would normally take hours, days, or possibly weeks, cut in half by the press of a button.  For example, Microsoft reports that it processes 84 trillion security signals every day, an amount far too large for humans to analyze alone. Generative AI helps turn this overwhelming data into clear, actionable insights.
That being said, AI could also be used outside of a professional setting for the same purpose, as it allows everyday civilians to not only learn but to gain tips and tricks on how to keep their own infrastructure safe. For instance, AI could be used to provide resources for those curious about cybersecurity, allowing them to learn, study, or apply knowledge and skills. Furthermore, those who may be unfamiliar with technology could use Copilot to gain assistance in securing their information.

AI agents 
AI agents can be created and programmed by giving them a clear goal, access to the right tools, and the ability to make decisions based on the information they gather. For example, if provided with the right sources and information, an agent designed to solve phishing, a common cyber-attack that involves embedding malicious software within an email or message, could be programmed to scan a user’s inbox or an input the user could submit, to identify possible red flags within the scanned material, summarize these flags, and list them to the user for easy understanding. Rather than the user having to manually read through and verify the contents, which would take a lot longer, and depending on the size, could possibly result in the user missing certain flags through dozens of messages, the ultimately turned into a smooth, hands off process.
